welcome back everyone to the China
history podcast La Silla Montgomery here
still with you after two hundred and
forty six episodes we're on to part
three this time still ancient history of
Xin Jiang
we've seen how China first began
engaging the people who called shinjang
home there were no borders back then
like there are now
whenever we discuss any aspect of this
history of Xinjiang the ancient cities
of modern-day Tajikistan kazakhstan
kyrgyzstan iran afghanistan pakistan as
well they're all part of this history -
in everything west in east a Xin Jiang
was all connected via these Silk Roads
that got the heartbeat pumping that led
to the first vestiges of global trade we
left off last time with the Western Han
triumphant and Xin Jiang watch you Bing
and wait Ching these two Han Dynasty
generals were the Chinese heroes who
pushed the show-nu out of Xin Jiang or
at least north of the Tian Shan the
heavenly mountains that served as this
bushy eyebrow above the Tarim basin
beginning with Han moody and for the
next two Western Han Emperor's Jiao and
Shen the foundations were built and
fortified in Xinjiang that facilitated
all the Silk Road trade between China
and the rest of the world but then we'll
see starting with the Han Emperor yen 48
to 33 BCE after such a magnificent run
the dynasty started to stall about a
time Jesus was doing his preaching in
the Holy Land the Han Dynasty hit the
skids one small chapter from the Chinese
history of the Xin Jiang region happened
in 77 BCE late in the reign of Han
childî there was a bit of unrest in the
kingdom of lo'laan lo'laan due to its
strategic location just on the other
side of the hood she corridor was a very
key place for the Han Imperial
government there had been a change in
leadership
at the top of the kingdom of lowland and
when no one was looking the show new
installed a very unfriendly King and
once that happened all the sudden the
han dynasty began to lose control and
influence in lo'laan and when Han envoys
were sent there to ask what was going on
they were killed the emperor Chao but
not personally of course but his court
called out a man named foo jets to lead
a black op out west and take out this
new pro show new king of lo'laan so as I
said 77 BCE it's now a decade after the
death of Han wildy and his youngest son
is now the top guy so Fuji hats Laden
down with all kinds of expensive gifts
led his entourage west in the direction
of lo'laan when he arrived in the
provincial Gateway to the West
Gansu Province and passed through
Dunhuang he arrived on the outskirts of
Lowell on therap on he requested a
meeting with the king and was instantly
rebuffed Fuji it's when demonstrated all
kinds of diplomatic humility and said he
had been sent all this way to tell the
king of lo'laan that all China wanted
was to let bygones be bygones and he
brought all these gifts from Chung on
and after putting on a good show he
tempted the King to attend a private
soiree
he was holding in his encampment so this
Xiong nu puppet leader was wined and
dined and entertained by Fujitsu and he
presented the king with one magnificent
gift after another and the wine kept
flowing and as it happens the king of
lo'laan got a little bit too lubricated
and what followed was like the red
wedding and Game of Thrones the King was
assassinated decapitated and Fuji Itza
sent word to the city inhabitants of the
deed just committed said if anyone tried
to resist the whole might of the Han
army would come down on them and the
army was on its way right now
after food cheeses men lopped off the
king of lowlands head they hung it in a
conspicuous place for all
inhabitants of lo'laan to see shock and
awe baby and this ruse worked there was
no cavalry on the way Fujitsu was able
to use his Wiles to restore con
dominance in that part of Eastern
shinjang and henceforth that kingdom of
lo'laan became known as shun shun and
over in Kucha the leadership was
starting to sweat because as far away to
the east as lo'laan was it was still too
close for comfort
and they knew was only a matter of time
before the han military showed up so
pre-emptive action was taken and the Han
garrison out in those parts was attacked
and the commander killed
well this precipitated a visit to Kucha
by another noted Han Dynasty envoy named
Chang wing
he's another western han hero who what
else made a name for himself battling
with the Xiong nu like Jiang Chen
Fujitsu was another one who flew the Han
flag out in the western regions and made
valuable alliances and secured territory
for the Emperor and 71 BCE
not too long after Fujitsu wrote his
name into the book of Han with his
exploits in lo'laan
Chang way led 50,000 troops to Kucha to
make them pay for what they had done
wiping out that Han garrison and when
Chang we arrived in Kucha with his army
and demanded an audience with the king
of Kucha this King told Chang way that
attack against the Han forces and the
unfortunate execution of the commander
was an act perpetrated by his father the
former king and at he the son of the
king was completely innocent of this
violent act furthermore this coachin
king not only distanced himself from his
father's actions and politics he
proclaimed his undying admiration for
Han culture and civilization and offered
his complete allegiance to Emperor Shen
in Chang'an so he opened the gates to
the city and invited Chang way in and
from that moment on Kucha like you see
with many nations of today tide it's
skiff
for better or for worse to the Chinese
state let me just mention quickly
another of the vanished kingdoms
operating in and around Xin Jiang during
this magnificent time during the Western
Han Dynasty was the kingdom of Wu Swan
the Swan were another indo-european
people who had allied themselves with
Han China against the occasional shun no
threat their homeland was where the you
had sure once roamed gansu province but
after the ebb and flow of Xiong nu
dominance in and around the tire and
basin they ultimately headed up to
Northwest shinjang in and around the
eleaf Valley like others from this time
the was one more or less faded into the
background between the end of the Han
and the start of the sway anyway back to
Kucha after getting up off his knees
this king of Kucha spent a year in china
soaking up all the culture and ways the
Han rulers managed their great and
powerful state like a lot of people did
he took all this knowledge and
experience gained in China and brought
it back to his lands and Xin Jiang and
did much to fortify and enhance the
couch and state and in return he put the
resources of his state at the disposal
of the Han military and they were able
to use Kucha as a base to pacify the
western regions and the peace and
stability the Han military brought to
the region ensured the continued
prosperity of Kucha and it stayed this
way pretty much up until the tide began
to add the closer you got to Wang maan
and the end of the Western Han there
were a total of 10 han Protectorate
generals who ruled in Kucha between 60
BCE and 23 seee the last protector
general was named Li Chun and he served
out west right around the time of Wang
mungs ultimates bloody and gory demise
and one small but interesting thing in
1928 when archeologists were digging out
west and she and Jung they
and stupidly Chong's carves seal
everyone had one of those an official
seal that was used in lieu of a
signature that's always something
special when archaeologists find these
artifacts that corroborate or disavow
the prevailing official long accepted
histories of the time the one who
discovered Lee Chong seal by the way was
one of the greatest early Chinese
archaeologists who specializes in Xin
Jiang Huang Wendy he worked with Sven
Hadean in the 1920s and 30s exploring
all these ancient sites and did so much
to advance the earliest understanding of
these lands in northwest China anyway
Huang Wendy's reward for all his great
contributions was that he ended up
getting hounded to death in 1966 at the
age of 73 during the Cultural Revolution
anyway in 2007 when they were doing a
little Civic Improvement around shields
where the former KU Chen Kingdom was
situated the construction crew whilst
digging came upon a Jean dynasty era
tomb Jin dynasty Western and Eastern -
65 - 420 the tomb was constructed in the
Han style not in the local style of the
inhabitants of Kucha a little more
excavation revealed an entire complex
with many more tombs and was found to be
many generations of the same Chinese
family who were living in Kucha during
that terrible time during the Jin when
the whole barbarians were stressing out
the northern Han Chinese of the central
plain we remember from past episodes
this terror and unrest in the north of
China during the eastern jin dynasty
it's one of the factors that caused the
do Chi's haka and Hawk yin to get up and
go fleeing in a southerly direction as
far away as possible from these fierce
nomadic conquerors there were also Han
Chinese who opted to head westward in
the direction of Xin Jiang where it was
also believed to be safer and out of
harm's way
and those remains discovered in this
tomb in chilled sir were among that
group so we remember Chang way as
another military and diplomatic hero of
the Han Dynasty who carried the sword
for the Emperor and pacified much of the
tyrant Basin for the country
he died in 46 BCE but despite all this
pushback against a show knew they were
still a constant source of stress on the
Han Dynasty a part of the whole strategy
of taking over Xin Jiang was not only to
build out the Han Empire but also to
deprive the Xiong nu of the rich
pickings all around the Tarim and turpan
basins without the benefit of these
riches it was believed the Xiong nu
would become less of a threat to China
the Schiano had done well exploiting the
east-west trade along the routes but now
since about the midway point of the
first century BCE the end of the
Republic in room the Han Chinese Empire
was the dominant force in Xinjiang with
their influence extending all the way
into Central Asia I'm sort of playing
fast and loose with the term Zhang knew
they were always a confederation of
nomads and not one single unified people
when they were defeated during Han woo
Dee's time with his two generals watch
you Bing and waiting the Xiong nu
weren't so much defeated as they were
fragmented
and even though they'll be battling the
Xiong nu for decades to come there were
some show-nu tribes that were actually
allied with the Hun and weren't as
warlike as others you know show-nu was
just this pejorative term the Han
Chinese gave to these northern nomads
who called the Mongolian steppe their
home a new was a slave and Zhang meant
fierce it was a big umbrella term but
rather than get bogged down and the
intricacies of show new history
I hope they'll pardon me for using it as
this one-size-fits-all term for what
were mostly the northern show-nu from
the years 9 to 23 C II came the
ill-fated single Emperor Xin dynasty
which
his most famous usurper Wan Minh tried
to restore the shaky foundations of the
Han Dynasty like it is with every change
of dynasty or government Wan monks sent
word out to all neighbors and tribute
paying states that the Han Dynasty was
gone and now it was the Xin dynasty and
he Wong was in charge he tried to hold
on to all those distant lands that had
been conquered by the many Han military
heroes but let me say just as dan quayle
was no Jack Kennedy well Wang mang was
no han woody no sooner did Juan monks
government take over the reins of power
when the specter of civil unrest raised
its ugly head and core China to deal
with all the crucial problems close to
home Wong monks government had to take
its eye off the xin zhang ball and into
this power vacuum came all kinds of
opportunities most notably of course for
the Xiong nu
but the Chinese didn't stay away from
Xin Jiang that long after Wang mang met
his awfully violent end in the year 23
the Han Dynasty was restored and once
the dynasty restoring Emperor Han Kuang
rule put the house of Leo back in the
driver's seat Han China started to make
a strong comeback by the time of the
Guang Wu Emperor's son the hard-working
ming emperor china was locked and loaded
and ready to take back what had been
lost and just as han moody had the
benefit of watching and waiting to be
the tip of his spare Zinta Xin Jiang
Emperor Ming had the great and heroic
father-son team of banh chiao and ban
Yong let's start with the father he's a
little more well known this was banh
chiao he lived from 32 to 102 seee he
came from one heck of an overachieving
family his father and siblings were
renowned imperial scholar officials and
chief among the compilers of the book of
Han so banh chiao
at first followed in his father's
footsteps but was inspired to go the
military route and banh chiao showed a
lot of early promise after having
acquired a measure of repute following a
good first outing against the shownu in
73 besides his achievements in Xinjiang
banh chiao is remembered as a strategist
of the highest order and famous for
winning a lot of battles
despite being far outnumbered or in the
less advantageous position militarily
he's remembered and lionized in Chinese
history for the fight he led out in Xin
Jiang for 30 years warring with the
shownu and restoring the Tarim basin to
Han China control ban Chows military and
diplomatic exploits saw him extend Han
China influence beyond shin heung as far
west as the Caspian Sea
however from practical standpoint the
western regions as far as China was
concerned was centered in and around the
tire rim basin beyond that it was still
too far away to project even a semblance
of real power but it's important to
remember those lands in present-day
Kyrgyzstan Tajikistan Kazakhstan they
were also integral to this Chinese
history but not nearly as important as
the Tarim basin it was written in the
book of Han that banh chiao had subdued
and controlled the 36 kingdoms of the
western regions the 36 kingdoms
well they were a collection of small
city-states of various sizes and wealth
each run like a monarchy the greatest of
these kingdoms are the names we've heard
and will become most familiar with coton
Cucho turpin lo'laan Axew Kashgar
yarkand chorus are and others these are
the city names we'll keep hearing clear
through till the end of this series now
try to be consistent with these names
they all have Chinese names Persian
names Weger names mongol names and you
know the different names used by
different scholars and because they
competed with each other in the
creative Silk Road trade and for other
reasons - these Oasis States didn't form
you know like a United Arab Emirates to
combine their political and financial
power distance from each other and their
own self-interest prevented them from
ever forming defensive alliances so
individually they were always easy meet
for the Chinese army back in the first
century and for the Xiong nu as well by
the time banh chiao had subdued the last
tyreme Basin Kingdom
China's yoke was firmly put back in
place
this meant two things first the trade
routes between Han China Central Asia
India Persia and the eastern
Mediterranean were secured on their end
you know how you'll hear the US Navy
patrols the Seas keeping the sea lanes
open for international trade you know
and from whatever this was the case with
a strong China presence out in those
western regions no one single
troublemaker could upset the status quo
as long as they face Chinese troops
besides maintaining the peace out in
those parts those Han Dynasty soldiers
garrisoned out their extended and
fortified the Great Wall all the way up
to the end of the hood she corridor and
there they established these twin ten
state farms that I told you about last
episode as well as forts signal beacons
outposts manned with centuries and a
whole brigade of interpreters familiar
with all the major tongues of the Silk
Road so thanks to this Chinese Imperial
sponsorship it all facilitated this
two-way economic and cultural cornucopia
of riches if anyone west of the Tai rim
Basin wanted to do anything to cause a
break in the supply chain they had the
deal with banjos army this was one belt
one road in its most primitive form by
the way a little bit of bunch Oh trivia
for any Chinese speakers out there he's
the guy
who's credited with the immortal
chun-yin of guru holschuh yen the hoots
you can't catch tiger cubs without
entering the Tiger's lair the Chinese
version of her nothing ventured nothing
gained
that came from banh chiao straight out
of the whole Honshu and trust me someone
this important he got his own chapter in
that book and I mentioned Bunch house
brother and sister and father or all
these renowned scholars wrote the book
of Han well another famous Chung you
attributed to banh chiao was Toby Tong
wrong to cast aside the pen to join the
military to give up literary pursuits
for a martial life banh chiao ladies and
gentlemen hey I'm still paying 8 bucks a
month to the good folks at libsyn to
keep those 30 episodes of the Chinese
sayings podcast live and all the podcast
apps go check that out for more history
there's a story behind everything even
after four years Cathay Pacific still
carries those shows in their in-flight
entertainment system there was more to
the plan to maintain a strong military
presence in the western regions besides
keeping the Silk Road safe for trade
having Han Chinese forces on site to
lean on everyone they ensured the
tribute from these competing states kept
flowing in the direction of law young
the eastern Han capital there was a lot
of nice stuff being traded back and
forth along the Silk Roads and this
unofficial arrangement led to China
keeping the peace out there and whoever
wanted to be left alone paid obeisance
to the Han Emperor and sent tribute
according to the custom even for the
Chinese imperial government this was not
chump change in the Han Court depended
on it heavily a great deal of the luxury
and exotica that decorated the Emperor's
palaces came as tribute from these
trading out repose of the Tarim basin
not everyone anxiously joined up to pay
tribute to the Han Emperor the three
kingdoms of cash car Yarkon and Houghton
they resisted these were the Sokka
speaking parts of the southwest rim of
the Tarim basin where they spoke the
indo-iranian language that differed from
what was spoken on the opposite side of
the tarim basin in the north were the
indo-european languages were more
prevalent these Sokka
speaking places were the most powerful
and richest of these shinjang kingdoms
we're gonna circle back and look at them
individually plus a few others later on
each place had its own history going on
it wasn't necessarily tied to what was
happening in China there's way more to
the history of Xinjiang then what I'm
telling you in this long-winded series
again I'm trying to tell it from the
perspective of Chinese history and this
being do you know China history podcast
and all so much more later on regarding
the kingdoms of Catan Kashgar Yarkon and
others let's get out of the Han Dynasty
alive first to make nice with these
tyreme kingdoms and States between 74
and 75 banh chiao had gone on a
diplomatic offensive all over the basin
and got all these key city's kingdoms
and whatnot to sign up and join the Han
fight against the show-nu the Xiong nu
and 75c II in a major offensive against
bunch House forces tried to smash this
base they had set up just inside Xin
Jiang and push them back to the other
side of the hood she corridor in Gansu
but the Alliance's ban Chow had made in
the region prior to the show new
offensive proved to be the deciding
factor in defeating the Xiong nu and
pushing them back north again beyond the
Tian Shan Mountains with Bunch house
heavy hand by 84c II these lands were
solidly under Han control just over the
Xin Jiang border was the kushan empire
if you recall these were the you had
sure people who the Xiong nu had pushed
out of Western Gong sook to the e Li
Valley and then into the gorgeous
Fergana Valley where after they were
hell
I fought amongst themselves they became
known as the bactrian speaking kwai song
from which it is believed we get Kushan
now when I say Helen eyes I mean the
inhabitants their adopted many Greek
ideas culture and customs as these were
former lands conquered once by Alexander
the Great it was only natural that some
of that greek-macedonian influence
remained when the hedger were pushed
into this region they adopted some of
these Hellenic aspects including
language and alphabet we saw that from
the coins they left behind they were dug
out of the ground and I don't want to
wander too far off the yellow brick road
the Kushan Empire lasted from the 1st to
4th century and stretched from this
Fergana Valley also known as sogdia
and later transoxiana all the way down
to northern India including a big part
of Afghanistan they were chopped up and
ceased to exist by 375 as far as China
is concerned the Kushan Empire played a
starring role as an early repository of
Buddhist learning to Central Asia from
whence this hot religion from India was
brought to China and from China to Korea
Japan and Vietnam
so 92 C E is the ear that banh chiao was
made the Shi you do who The Protector
General of the Shi Yu the western region
which again was essentially everything
west of the human pass the Jade Gate in
Gansu Province just beyond historic Don
Juan by then thanks to the leadership of
ban Chow the whole of the Tarim Basin as
I mentioned already was in the bag for
Han China the China government set up an
administrative center in Kucha which the
book of Han said was the most populous
and productive city in the region and
had a population of 81 thousand 317
although I'm sure a lot of these places
surrounding the tyrant base and felt
some pain overall bunch I was popular
and got unwell with the key leaders
anyway by 95c II it was written not the
36 but the 50 kingdoms had submitted to
ban Chow and it had been written in
these ancient histories that there were
as many as fifty five of these Silk Road
kingdoms that had sprung to life since
the time of Han rule D 36 fifty
fifty-five the exact number isn't
important they were all interacting with
each other and constantly shifting the
political landscape by the first century
CE E Silk Road trade was already nice
and mature and wherever there's lots of
wealth there's plenty of covetous
neighbors sizing them up all the time
there was plenty of churn and burned
with respect to the histories of these
individual places the Tarim
basin and most of them disappeared into
the sands of the Taklamakan desert but
we know about most of the greatest ones
now this isn't related to our story per
se but I wanted to quickly mention this
other event that bunch o is remembered
for this was the mission to Rome that he
initiated in the year 97 he sent one of
his envoys named gan yang to the west to
establish relations with the Parthian x'
in that westernmost part of central asia
nestled in between the Middle East and
India and stretching all the way to the
western shinjang border the Parthian 's
were the eternal middlemen in the sub
trade no matter how much the romans and
the chinese dreamed of direct trade with
each other the Parthian 's they wouldn't
have any of it if roman importers wanted
Chinese silk in the first centuries of
the Common Era they had to get it from
their enemy parthia besides hooking up
with the Parthian sky yang was also
tasked with carrying a message to the
Emperor in Rome or dot Xin as was called
back then
nervo was the Emperor till 98 followed
by Trajan in any case gagne ng didn't
get to meet either of them he only made
it about as far as the Black Sea or some
say the eastern
an interesting footnote to the times
like John Chen he came back to the home
country with a whole lot of Intel
so from becoming the do who of these
western regions in 92 lasting all the
way till his retirement in 102 in his
subsequent death immediately after banh
chiao ensured the tyreme basin region
remained part and parcel of the Han
Empire so we saw how after han woody had
built up an empire that stretched into
the Tyron basin it only took three Han
emperors before that grip loosened and
all was lost but thanks to ban Chow and
his great military and diplomatic
victories during the eastern Han
Emperor's Ming and Jung China had been
able to replant the Han flag in the
Tarim Basin and other parts of Xin Jiang
as well no in the eastern han under the
reign of Han hoody 88 to 106 C II this
is not long after the passing of banh
chiao Chinese control and management of
the region began to collapse just as the
Chinese state itself was starting to
become unglued as the years got closer
to the 3rd century the moment was almost
upon the Chinese nation made so famous
by law qin qiong's immortal line the
Empire long divided must unite and long
United must divide this part of the
eastern Han was up ahead
not far in the distance in 107 there had
been an uprising in the region that saw
two of Bancho sons ban Yong and ban
Xiang being sent out west to bring the
fight to the Xiong nu and clean up that
mess
yeah those brothers ended up getting
shellacked and had to make a hasty
retreat back east and once they vacated
the area well that pretty much spelled
the end of Han hegemony over the whole
Xin Jiang region for a while anyway into
the 120s the han were once again
displaced and the show-nu became
dominant in the region and were able to
feast once more with feeling
and those tribute payments
the Han Court of Emperor unn was torn
between opposing factions who said she
and Jung wasn't worth the effort and
those who said it was vital to the state
ban Jung who had grown up there and was
intimately aware of Xin Jiang strategic
and economic importance to China
remained as committed as his father to
integrate these western regions into the
Han Chinese Empire o'banion got his
chance in 123 seee to take over control
of the turpan basin region and like his
father once did build up alliances with
these various trading entrepot x' to
once again take the fight to the shownu
and push them back to where they once
belonged north of the tian shan
mountains yeah having grown up in Shiyu
these western regions
bonyen was the perfect diplomat and he
went to the kingdoms of shan shan gu
more let's today's Roth young and
tchodson oXXO and one by one between 126
and 127 he brought these kingdoms over
to his side and then it was written in
126 the six kingdoms of ji sure all
bowed to Han these were six kingdoms
north and east of turpin and in Kucha
bond Jung set up his protectorate from
which Shin Jang was administered and
relations with Han China carried out now
more about this place you sure and part
5 so that's the story of banh chiao and
baño a father-and-son team who used
their wiles diplomatic ways fighting
spirit and quick thinking to push the
Han dynasty's borders and influence all
the way to Xin Jiang and beyond they
provided the security administration and
general Pak Seneca to the region that
kept things relatively peaceful which
enabled this rapidly growing two-way
trade between east and west to thrive
okay I think I've blathered on long
enough
Three Kingdoms period to the start of
the sway that's what's up next and as
they had ever complicated if you stay up
all night wondering how
you can support the CHP there's two ways
patreon.com slash China history podcast
get access to all kinds of racy bonus
material and early access to future CHP
episodes or if you just want to
contribute one lump sum and be done with
it there's the official CHP PayPal
donation center at PayPal dot me slash
China history podcast enter any amount
hit enter you'll have my eternal
gratitude you could also be like
listener Felix in Berlin who did both
hit me up with a very generous sum on
PayPal and subscribe to the CHP patreon
page danke Felix I know a lot of you
keep asking me if I can accept a WeChat
pay I'd love to but I have no idea how
to do that but maybe one day okay that's
all I got for you this time already
three episodes in and we haven't even
gotten to the Tong dynasty I better pick
up the pace a little the best is yet to
come let me tell you that right now
okay Laszlo Montgomery signing off from
sunny LA have you planned your summer
vacation yet come on out to Los Angeles
and say g'day
if the all-clear signal has been given
by mid-june we can go celebrate the CHP
ten-year anniversary together until then
please consider coming back again in two
weeks time for another exciting episode
of the China history podcast